# STUDY OF KAINATE RECEPTORS IN HUMAN EMBRYONIC KIDNEY CELLS VIA ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY 
## by JOSEPH GASPARI

### Abstract 

Today, an estimated 600,000 people in Canada are living with Alzheimer’s disease (AD), with an expected 66% increase in the next 15 years, making it one of the most prevalent diseases in modern medicine. New advancements in neurobiology are focusing on the role of glial cells in synaptic elimination within the brain. The intimate connection that has been shown between astrocytes and the neuronal synapse has sparked an investigation into their ability to communicate via calcium signaling: a process necessary in maintaining healthy synapses. The influx of calcium in astrocytes is triggered by the specific binding of glutamate to ionotropic glutamic acid receptors known as kainite receptors (iGluKs). This subset of receptors has been found to be located on both the postsynaptic terminal of neurons and astrocytes, making it an ideal target to elucidate the effects of calcium in synaptic elimination. Current methods are insufficient, as they do not allow for investigation of the receptors within live cells, thus a robust method of monitoring and controlling iGluKs should be investigated. To accomplish this, our lab has designed a chemical probe with fluorescent tag Pacific Blue to mimic the native iGluK ligand. Through electrophysiological techniques, the genetically modified cells were to be tested with glutamate and Kainic acid to produce an effective concentration that would activate 50% of the receptors found on the cell’s membrane. Overall, it was found that the EGFP could remain in the cytosol as iGluR6 incorporated into the plasma membrane. Primary antibody fluorescence was detected in transfected cells and absent in non-transfected cells, confirming that the cells could incorporate the new genetic material successfully

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### The entire thesis can be found in the file named Thesis.pdf

